
                                   ccrypt

   Secure encryption and decryption of files and streams
     _________________________________________________________________

This file contains instructions specific to the Windows distribution
of ccrypt. Please see README and the man page for general information
on usage etc.

INSTALLATION for Windows 95/98/2000/NT/xp/etc:
==================================================

Download the file ccrypt-XXX.cygwin-i386.zip, and unpack it using your
favorite tool. Often, double-clicking on the archive will start some
unpacking wizard. Or on the command line, you can use e.g.:

        unzip ccrypt-XXX.cygwin-i386.zip

If the "unzip" program is unavailable, then use "pkunzip" instead, but
read the following note first.

NOTE: "pkunzip" is a relatively dumb program. My version of it, which
came with Windows 98, does not understand long filenames, and you may
have to type something of the form "pkunzip ccrypt~1.zip". Instead of
creating a directory, it may decide to dump the files in the current
working directory, and it may rename them. Use "unzip" instead of
"pkunzip" if it is available.

If you have "tar" and "gunzip" installed, you may also get the file
potrace-XXX.cygwin-i386.tar.gz instead of the zip file.

The windows distribution includes an executable file ccrypt.exe, and a
dynamically linked library cygwin1.dll.  You need to put both
ccrypt.exe and cygwin1.dll in places where Windows can find them. One
such place is C:\WINDOWS. Alternatively, you can amend your PATH
environment variable, by adding something like the following line to
C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT:

        PATH=%PATH%;C:\DIRECTORY\WHERE\FILES\ARE

If you already have a different version of cygwin installed, you
cannot use this binary unless you up/downgrade to the version of
cygwin that comes with the ccrypt distribution. However, there should be
no problem re-compiling ccrypt under your version of cygwin.

The default executable file is called ccrypt.exe. You should also
create files ccencrypt.exe, ccdecrypt.exe, and ccat.exe in the same
directory. These files are identical to ccrypt.exe, but when ccrypt is
invoked by one of these filenames, its default behavior changes. Under
Windows, the most fool-proof solution is to make four copies of
ccrypt.exe and rename them appropriately. If you are running a shell
under CygWin, you can also create a symbolic link, or you may be able
to achieve the same effect by creating a shortcut under Windows.

RUNNING:
==================================================

For non-Windows specific usage information, see the file README.

Ccrypt on Windows runs in much the same way as under Linux and other
Unix-like operating systems, due to the amazing magic of cygwin
(http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin/), which simulates a Unix
environment under Windows.

Note on wildcards: The following command line does not work as
expected under Windows:

 ccrypt h:\data\*.*

However, each of the following two commands will work as it should:

 ccrypt h:\data\file.txt

 ccrypt h:/data/*.*

I am not sure what causes this behavior. Apparently an inconsistency
between backslash conversion and wildcard expansion.
